This 8th generation Honda Civic was
introduced in Europe in 2006.
The car stood out with
its bizarre appearance.
You either like the looks or not,
but it got the Red Dot Design Award.
That's a big award
in the world of design.
The modern design of the Civic
has some advantages.
It has a huge trunk, larger than
that of the BMW 3-series at the time.
It's also 100 L bigger than the
competition: Golf, Ford Focus, etc.
There isn't much head
space in the back, though.
Keep that in mind when
buying this car with kids.
Small kids will be fine, but taller
ones will be less comfortable.
The interior is very driver focussed.
Everything I need is within reach.
I can even reach for the A/C
right next to the steering wheel.
The model got a facelift in 2009.
That model can be recognized by
its open air intakes in the grille.
It interrupts the continuous
bar of the headlights.
The rear bumper of the facelift
is a little different as well.
Engines start with a 82 hp 1.4,
up 'til the 197 hp Civic Type R.
There's also a diesel engine,
a 2.2 CTDI with 138 hp.
ENGINES
gasoline, diesel
About 130 Civic hatchbacks of this
gen are for sale on AutoScout24.
More Civics are for sale, but those are
hybrid sedans; completely different cars.
We won't go over those in this video.
80% of the hatchbacks has a gasoline
engine, the other 20% has a diesel.
About 93% has a manual gearbox,
7% has an automatic.
A lot of cars have A/C standard.
Climate control is rarer.
About 65% has it,
80% has a form of A/C.
If you want a Civic, prices start
at 6,500 euros for high mileage cars.
It ends at 17,000 euros
for a young Type R.
PRICES
minimum, average, maximum
There are some things
to watch out for.
There have been a number of recalls,
for the older cars in particular.
The first cars had problems with the
rear springs, which needed replacing.
Next, water would collect at
the fuel pump plug thing.
It would corrode, stalling the engine
or it just wouldn't start.
That got a fix as well.
Then, the first Civics in particular,
had a problem with the parking brake.
The release button's spring was put in
wrong side up, so it released itself.
That's not convenient when parking the car
on an incline with the parking brake on.
You get out and the car will roll away.
That needed to be fixed as well.
Other things to watch out for?
The braking fluid needs to be checked
thoroughly once every 3 years.
That's important with this car.
Then, the interior often shows wear,
especially on the high mileage cars.
Check for wear and tear in places
where you'd expect it:
the seats' sides where you rub
against when getting in and out.
Usually you'll see wear
at these spots first.
Coming back to the design. The
windshield is part of the car's integrity.
If it shows cracks, it all could wring more.
You don't want that, so check the windshield.
Any damage should
be fixed immediately.
The 2.2 diesel is a nice engine. We're
driving gasoline now, but I heard it is.
They do want oil, so keep
an eye on the oil level.
Another problem is that some (the older ones)
need a new clutch at 31,000 miles.
That's quick. If you want an early Civic diesel,
check if the clutch has been replaced.
It's an expensive fix.
There aren't many cars (7%)
with an automatic gearbox.
It's called I-SHIFT and is
not very sophisticated.
It's technically fine,
but doesn't shift smoothly.
A problem with the headlights:
they wring in pre-facelift cars.
It cuts into the bumper's paint.
Check for any damage there.
Finally, there's a problem
with the oil sensor.
It may malfunction,
switching the light on.
It can run the battery dry.
Annoying, but easy to fix.
It's just annoying.
A software update should fix it.
If you encounter the problem,
visit the dealer for a quick fix.
We borrowed this car at
Auto Hommel in Etten-Leur.
It has a lot of features, this 1.4.
It's an S Advantage edition, basically
full-option. Only satnav is missing.
You pay 11,750 euros
for this nice Honda Civic.
THIS CAR
Thanks to
Hommel Autobedrijven
Subs - Maru